the origin story starts at culver
university in virginia
general thaddeus thunderbolt ross meets
with dr bruce banner
the colleague and boyfriend of his
daughter betty regarding an experiment
that ross claims is meant to make humans
immune to gamma radiation
the experiment part of a world war two
era super soldier program that ross
hopes to recreate fails
the exposure to gamma radiation causes
banner to transform into the hulk for
brief periods of time
whenever his heart rate rises above 200
beats per minute
the hulk destroys the lab and
surrounding area killing several people
inside and injuring the general and
betty
and others outside banner becomes a
fugitive from the u.s military and ross
who wants to weaponize the hulk five
years later
banner works at a bottling factory in
rossinha rio de janeiro
brazil while searching for a cure for
his condition
on the internet he anonymously
collaborates with a colleague known only
as mr blue
he is learning yoga techniques to help
keep control and has not transformed in
five months
after banner cuts his finger a drop of
his blood falls into a bottle
which is eventually ingested by an
elderly consumer in milwaukee
wisconsin giving him gamma sickness
using the bottle to track down banner
ross sends a special forces team
led by emil blinsky to capture him
banner transforms into the hulk and
defeats blinsky's team
after ross explains how banner became
the hulk blinsky agrees to be injected
with a small amount of a similar serum
which gives him enhanced speed strength
agility and healing and begins to deform
his skeleton and impairs his judgment
banner returns to culver university and
reunites with betty
banner is attacked a second time by ross
and blinsky's forces
tipped off by betty's suspicious
boyfriend leonard sampson
causing banner to again transform into
the hulk
the ensuing battle outside the
university proves futile for ross forces
and they retreat though blinsky whose
sanity is faltering
attacks and mocks the hulk the hulk
severely injures blinsky and flees with
betty
after the hulk reverts to banner he and
betty go on the run
and banner contacts mr blue who urges
them to meet him in new york city
mr blue is actually cellular biologist
dr samuel stearns
who tells banner he has developed a
possible antidote to banner's condition
after a successful test he warns banner
that the antidote may only reverse each
transformation
stearns reveals he has synthesized
banner's blood samples
which banner sent from brazil into a
large supply
to apply its limitless potential to
medicine
fearful of the hulk's power falling into
the military's hands
banner wishes to destroy the blood
supply a recovered blinsky joins ross
forces for a third attempt to take
banner into custody
they succeed and banner and betty are
taken away in a helicopter
blinsky stays behind and orders stearns
to inject him with banner's blood
as he covets the hulk's power the
experiment mutates blinsky into the
abomination
a creature with size and strength
surpassing that of the hulk
he attacks stearns who gets some of
banner's blood in a cut on his forehead
causing him to begin mutating as well
the abomination rampages through harlem
realizing that the hulk is the only one
who can stop the abomination
banner convinces ross to release him he
jumps from ross helicopter and
transforms after hitting the ground
after a battle throughout harlem the
hulk defeats the abomination by nearly
strangling him to death with a chain
but spares his life upon hearing betty's
plea and leaves the abomination for ross
and his forces to arrest
after having a peaceful moment with
betty the hulk flees new york
a month later banner is in bella kula
british columbia
instead of suppressing his
transformation he begins to transform in
a controlled manner with a slight smirk
later tony stark approaches ross at a
local bar and informs him that a team is
being put together